# 200kW-water-cooled-surface-mounted-permanent-magnet-synchronous-motor
optimal design of the cooling system using pipes:
In recent years, with the expansion of the use of electric motors in various industries, the need for motors with limited dimensions and high torque and power density at the same time has increased. To design and construct such a motor, in addition to electromagnetic analysis, we also need thermal analysis. Because practically, there are thermal limits that determine the rated power of the electric machine. On the other hand, the performance of various parts of the electric motor, such as magnets, insulations, and bearings, is highly dependent on the operating temperature. Therefore, thermal analysis is very important for electric motors. This analysis should cover fluid issues in addition to solids issues; In other words, besides the motor, we must also consider the internal and external fluids of the motor. This fluid has a significant effect on the cooling of the motor, and this fluid causes the main convective currents of the electric motor.
The use of a cooling system directly affects the temperature of the motor. In addition to reducing heat, this optimization must also be fluid and economically efficient. For this reason, we must optimize this system from all three aspects of temperature, fluidity, and economy. Finally, the results obtained from the comparisons between the initial and optimal design in terms of thermal and electromagnetic will show the effect of optimization. Classical and intelligent algorithms are used for this optimization. Intelligent algorithms have a higher priority due to the stagnation of local optimal points and the ability to integrate into any derivative and non-derivative system.
The problem of heat transfer and electromagnetism determines the initial condition of the motor for practical use. While for complete information about the motor's condition in practical and applied testing, it is necessary to perform mechanical and acoustic (harmonic) analyses on the motor. Therefore, after the mechanical test, we can comment on the length of the air gap. The acoustic analysis will also result in motor noise, so we can have a complete view of the motor performance by completing these two analyses.
